VMware Virtual Networking Concepts
  
Introduction

  With virtual networking, you can network virtual machines in the same way that you do physical machines and can build
  complex networks within a single ESX Server hosts or across multiple ESX Server hosts.
  
  Virtual switches allow virtual machines on the same ESX Server host to communicate with eache other using the same 
  protocols that would be used over physical switches, without the need for additional networking hardware. ESX Server 
  virtual switches also support VLANs that are compatible with standard VLAN implementations from other vendors.
  
VMware Infrastructure Networking Components
  The key virtual network components provided by Virutal Infrastructure 3 are virtual Ethernet adapters, used by individual 
  virtual machines, and virtual switches, which connect virtual machines to each other and connect both virtual machines and the ESX
  Server service console to external networks.
  
How Virtual Ethernet Adapters Work
  Three types of virtual adapter (for VMs):
    vmxnet
      
    vlance
    
    e1000
    
  Other virtual network adapters:
    vswif -- a paravirtualized device similar to vmxnet that is only used by ESX Server service console
    vmknic -- a virtual device in the VMkernel, the software layer that manages most of the physical resources on the ESX Server host.
    
How Virtual Switches Work
   
   Virtual switches are the key networking components in VMware Infrastructure 3. "built ot order" at runtime from a collection
   of small functional units, Some of the key functional units are:
    
    *The core Layer 2 forwarding engine
    *VLAN tagging, stripping, and filtering units.
    *Layer 2 security, checksum, and segmentation offload units.
    


Virtual Port
  The port on the virtual switches
  
Uplink port 
  Ports associated iwth physical adapter, providing a connection between a virtual netwrok and a physical network
  
Port Groups
  You can think of port groups as templates for creating virtual ports with particular sets of specifications.
  Port groups are user-named objects what contain enough configuration information to provide persistent and consistent 
  network access for virtual Ethernet adapters:
  
  * Virtual switch name
  * VLAN IDs and policies for tagging and filtering
  * Teaming policty
  * Layer 2 security options
  * Traffic shaping parameters
  
Uplinks
  Physical Ethernet adapters serve as bridges between virtual and physical networks.
  
  In order for a virtual switch to provide access to more thank on VLAN, the physical switch ports to which its uplinks are
  connected must be in trunking mode. it is importand to prune the VLANs, keeping only those that are required for the virtual switch.
  
  You can specify different teaming behavior for different groups of virtual machines that share the same team of physical adapters.
  
VLAN in VMware Infrastructure
  There are three different configuration modes to tag the packets for virtual machine frames.

    * Virtual switch tagging(VST mode) -- 
        Most common configuration. In this mode, you provision one port group on virtual switch for each vlan, then attach the virtual 
        machine's virtual adapter to the port group in stead of the virtual switch directly.
        
        Use of this mode requires that the physical switch provide a trunk.
    
    * Virtual machine guest tagging (VGT mode) --
        You may install an 802.1Q VLAN trunking driver inside the virtual machine, and tags will be preserved between the virutal 
        machine networking stack and external switch when frames are passed from or to virtual switches.
        
    * External switch tagging (EST mode)  --
        You may use external switches for VLAN tagging.
        
  
NIC Teaming
  You can connect single virtual switch to multiple physical Ethernet adapters using VMware Infrastructure feature called NIC teaming.
  A team can share the load of traffic between physical and virtual network among some or all of its member and provide passive failover
  in the event of a hardware failure or network outage.
  
  
  

    

  
  

  
  
  
  
  
